# Community-Decline
How well does the rate of net firm entry/exit predict the rise and fall of labor force particiation and self employment across geographies? How do these outcomes depend on the current industrial structure of localities? That is, establishment exit in New York City is likely to have less effect on the local labor market than, say, a comparable exit from South Bend Indiana.

These questions clearly interact closely with an individual's self employment decision. When there are many firms and vacancies, it is realtively easy to find a job in the local market and the incentive to self employ is diminished. When there are few vacancies, unemployment durations can be exceedingly long and thereby induce an incentive to self employ or leave the labor market all together. These concerns also depend on the firm size distribution in local labor markets. If a single large employer drives local labor market dynamics, local laborers bear the risk of employer exit. If a large number of employers drive local labor market dynamics, exit risk is diffuse.

While recent work on local labor markets has uncovered an important role for place-based policies ([Bilal (2023)](lit/directly-related/AdrienBilalJMP.pdf), [Kline and Moretti (2013)](lit/directly-related/kline-moretti.pdf)) in ameleorating the above concerns, a clear notion of "the firm" is conspicuously absent. Because of this, such models can only indirectly help economists think about policies which aim to attract firms to economically depressed areas.[^1] To address this concern, we build, estimate and validate a model of local labor markets featuring multi-worker firms with search. We contribute to the literature on optimal spatial policy.

[^1]: Models which take agglomeration economies as the *raison d'&#234;tre* for place-based policy *do* have a clear notion of the firm [(Fajgelbaum and Gaubert, 2025)](lit/directly-related/firm_sorting_gaubert.pdf). Yet efficiency in such models often prescribes the use of policies which incentvize greater concentration by way of agglomeration. This point is at odds with the substansive question of how policy can be used to induce firms to locate in economically depressed areas; a point emphasized by [Bilal (2023)](lit/directly-related/AdrienBilalJMP.pdf).
